== mortimer on debian squeeze with mysql
If you want to install mortimer on a debian squeeze, here is a step-by-step guide.
After this guide you will have a Mortimer set up in production mode with apache mod-passenger as frontend and mysqlas backend.

=== GET REQUIREMENTS
The first requirements you can get from the package manager:
	<tt>sudo apt-get -y install mysql-server rake rubygems libsqlite3-ruby sqlite3 libsqlite3-dev libmysql-ruby libapache2-mod-passenger</tt>

Bundler is not available as debian package and must be install manually:
	<tt>sudo gem install bundler</tt>

Grap the source, unzip it in the desired directory, then installthe needed bundles:
	<tt>/var/lib/gems/1.8/bin/bundle install</tt>
(Mind: bundle will not be in the $PATH, you need to specify the whole path)

=== DATABASE
You need 3 databases set up. In this guide we will create all databases in mysql, feel free to change that.
<b>Do not use the same database for test and anyother enviornment</b>

Create the mysql database:
	<tt>mysqladmin -u root -p create mortimer
	mysqladmin -u root -p create mortimer_dev
	mysqladmin -u root -p create mortimer_dev
	echo "GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON mortimer.* TO 'mortimer'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY '*\<PASSWORD>*'; 
	GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON mortimer_dev.* TO 'mortimer'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY '*\<PASSWORD>*';
	GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON mortimer_test.* TO 'mortimer'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY '*\<PASSWORD>*'; |mysql -u root -p</tt>

Copy the template and edit it:
	<tt>cp config/database.yml{.template,} && $EDITOR config/database.yml</tt>

By default the development enviornment is used. You need to migrate the database in the development and production enviornment.
	<tt>rake db:migrate
	RAILS_ENV=production rake db:migrate</tt>

=== SET UP MORTIMER 
Generate the site_key
	<tt>rake auth:gen:site_key</tt>

and edit the config/initializers/session_store.rb. Either change the secret or use the database.

run the setup. As with the database you will need to run this in both development and production environment.
<b>Don't forget to move the root_key.rsa after each step!</b>
	<tt>rake setup
	RAILS_ENV=production rake setup</tt>

=== APACHE
You can add or edit a VirtualHost in Apache. The DocumentRoot needs to be set to the public directory of your mortimer installation, and the directory needs to have  MuliViews disabled.
	<tt>\<VirtualHost *:80>
	    ServerName mortimer.localhost
	    DocumentRoot /path/to/mortimer/public
	    \<Directory /path/to/mortimer/public>
	        Allow from all
		RailsEnv production
	        Options -MultiViews
	    \</Directory>
	\</VirtualHost></tt>
<em>The default environment for passenger is *production*</em>

last but not least, restart your apache:
	<tt>sudo apache2ctl graceful</tt>
=== Endnotes
You are all set. If you get an error, try first to run the WEBrick server standalone in both enviornments
	<tt>script/rails server</tt>
	or
	<tt>RAILS_ENV=production script/rails server</tt>

and check if everything is working with your Webbrowser: http://<IP>:3000

Have fun!


